Ladies and gentlemen,
please welcome performance
engineer Nathan Slingerland.
Ladies and gentlemen,
please welcome performance
engineer Nathan Slingerland.
we've got in Shark 4.
So, and then of course, if you've seen,
some of you may have
seen the demo on Monday,
in the DevTools keynote.
We want to go a lot more in
depth with what we did there to
optimize Celestia using Shark.
So let's go.
So what is Shark?
Well, it's been called Apple's
best-kept secret,
but not anymore.
Starting this year, in this year's WWDC,
we've had a big push for this,
and we want you all to know that
this is a great way to find and
fix your performance problems.
So, what is Shark?
Well,
it's a really easy-to-use profiling tool.
There's a GUI version,
as well as a command line version.
The command line version is
very useful for scripting
performance regression testing,
so you can archive your
performance analysis,
later review it,
see how you've made progress as you
continually optimize your application.
So what is Shark?
Well,
it's a really easy to use profiling tool.
There's a GUI version as well
as a command line version.
And it runs on Panther and Tiger,
so that means, yes,
you can use it on your
development machines right now.
And of course we support
basically any kind of executable:
Mac OS, CFM,
compatible with all the compilers
that you can use in Mac OS X,
XSIM, debug format, stabs format,
so whatever you can throw at it,
Shark can show you what's going on.
So let's see how easy it is.
What do you do to get started with Shark?
It's just one click.
There's just this main
window with one button:
Start and Stop.
I mean,
this is the typical way that you start
profiling and stop it with Shark,
and you're on your way.
By default, we select a time profile,
but we also supply a rich set
of other preset configurations.
You can also create your
own configurations for doing
customized performance analysis.
By default,
we're going to profile the entire system,
but some profiling configs perhaps make
more sense to target a specific process.
So, for example, malloc tracing,
which we'll talk more about later,
you want to pick a target process.
Or static analysis,
you want to pick a particular
executable file to look at.
But for the most part,
you don't even need to go here.
You can just click the
start button and go.
So once you've selected
your configuration or just
left it at the default,
probably you're going
to do a time profile,
right?
So what is that?
This is the most common workflow.
Basically,
your time is just like optimizing
application performance.
You want to spend your time where you can
affect application performance the most.
So that's whatever functions
take the most wall clock time,
or whatever pieces of your code are
taking the most wall clock time.
So we're using—for time profile,
this is a statistical form of sampling,
and we're taking, by default,
a thousand samples per second,
and each sample contains backtrace,
so how you got to a particular
location in your code,
which process, which thread, et cetera.
So all this information,
and we collect that,
and when we combine it,
we can create a profile.
So this is going to show you,
over the sampling period,
where you were spending time
in a given process or thread,
or overall in the system.
Thank you.
And we're capturing everything.
So this includes the driver, any drivers,
any kernel code that's executing,
applications.
So no matter what kind
of developer you are,
this can help you profile your code.
And we're able to do this because
we also have a kernel extension,
right?
So we're sitting in the kernel
capturing these samples,
and this gives us very low overhead.
We really don't perturb the code
in the system hardly at all.
So once you've got a profile,
you've hit start, you've hit stop,
and you run whatever it
is you're interested in,
you're presented with this by default:
the heavy view.
And this is really the bottom line.
This is showing you,
starting from the top,
the most sampled to the least sampled
function in the selected process.
By default, we select the heaviest
process on the system.
So most of the time, this is your code.
This is your application that
you're trying to look at.
So that showed you where—the heavy
view showed you where the hotspots are.
The tree view is going to show
you where the hot code paths are.
So how did you get to
those important functions?
Right, so that's just this tree
button here at the bottom.
And new in Shark 4,
heavy entry simultaneously,
so you can use one to help
you navigate the other.
So those are two ways we
use very commonly to look at
high-level problems in our code.
The third way is the enhanced chart view.
So this chart view has
been there a while,
but it's been greatly
enhanced in Shark 4.
Basically, what we're looking at is call
stack depth—that's on the
y-axis—versus time on the x-axis.
And this can give you a really
good idea of a couple things.
First of all,
it can show you patterns in your code,
right?
So patterns in the
execution of your code.
And this can be good to look
for repetitive behavior,
and we'll talk more about that
later in relation to malloc
tracing and function tracing,
which we'll get to.
It also is a good way to
look for—if you see thin,
narrow spikes in this chart view,
that usually indicates that
you're spending a lot of time
in function call overhead,
right?
Because you had to call
many function levels deep,
but you're not actually doing all
that much work once you get there.
So this can be—we see this
a lot in object-oriented,
modern— you know, layered code,
where we just—we have
everything hidden in layers.
And so sometimes that
can hurt performance.
So for the colors here,
blue is the user space.
You may see there are a
few maroon-colored stacks.
Those are kernel.
And the yellow call
stack is what's selected.
So that's what's being shown
at the right-hand side there
is the current call stack.
Lightness doesn't mean
anything except for layers,
so it's just indicating,
as you see these gradients in color,
each color change is indicating
a new function vertically.
So those are the three main
tools that Shark is providing
for looking at your application.
But a lot of you probably are working
on some pretty sophisticated code bases,
and you have some complex
function call behavior,
and you really would like
to—you want to understand the
performance of that application.
So, Shark 4 has introduced a lot of new
features to try and help with high-level
analysis and understanding these more
complex application architectures.
The first is this color by library,
and what this is going to do
is just going to color each
different module that your program
is using—so different frameworks
or libraries—a different color.
And it remembers the color and it's
consistent between the different views.
And this is an easy,
really quick visual way to see the
difference between the modules,
visually to see where you're
spending time in what modules.
Okay, so another common problem you
probably will see in your code is,
this is a tree view,
and you may see that you have this
important--this intermediate function,
this interior function, for example,
B in this example,
and it's--you'd like--you see it
in two different spots in the tree,
right?
And you'd really like to know
how much time total is being
spent in B and its children,
right, because we tend to subdivide work.
So in this example, we have B calling C1,
C2, and C3, and not a whole lot of time
is being spent in B itself.
So what we've added is a canonical view,
and if you select that,
we're going to see not just--you know,
in the tree view,
normally we see main calls--Fu calls bar.
Well, in this case,
we're going to see all the symbols,
all the interior symbols,
every symbol that shows up,
and its total contribution, right?
So in this case,
B and what it calls total up
to 100 percent of the time
where you're being spent.
So this is a good way to to understand
how much time you're spending
in a function and its children.
So that kind of raises this question,
right?
Traditional profiling tools tend
to look at performance just like
the same way that the program
is broken down into functions,
right?
And that works pretty well
when you have a few functions
where you spend a lot of time,
right?
A few heavy functions.
But if you have just a lot
of functions in your code,
you've subdivided the work a lot
and you're reusing code everywhere,
or you're spending a lot of
time in system libraries,
that really isn't the best presentation.
And that's what data
mining allows you to do.
It's going to allow you to customize
how you're looking at a profile.
And by customizing it,
you can help ease your
understanding of it.
So Shark provides a couple of
basic data mining operations.
The first is exclude symbol or library.
And what this is gonna do,
it's gonna hide a symbol
or library that you select.
And so we're not just
taking the samples out.
It's important to remember this.
We're not just removing these samples,
right?
So if you hide the function foo,
any samples that landed in foo are just
being assigned to whatever called it,
right?
So if you have a piece of
code that calls square root,
for example, and you exclude square root,
it's gonna just assign
the time to that function,
your function, right?
And really that's a lot easier
for a lot of us to understand
is time spent in our code,
right?
'Cause we can't do a lot about
system libraries typically.
So, along those same lines
is Flatten Library.
We are familiar with the pieces of
AppKit or Core Foundation or the
other system libraries that we call,
those function entry points.
But a lot of times you'll see interior
functions inside of those libraries
that you really don't know much about,
and you really don't care much about
the implementation interior to that.
So, Flatten Library is going to do that.
It's going to hide everything inside of
a library except for the entry point.
So, you're going to just see all the
time it show up in the entry point,
which is what you understand, right,
because that's what you
called from your code.
And finally, Focus Symbol.
If you typically navigate
very deep call trees,
or if you know you have a certain
symbol that you only want to
look at and what it calls,
that's what Focus does.
It's going to just start the display of
the various call paths from that symbol.
So these are different ways
to really customize how
you're looking at the profile.
And internally at Apple,
we've found this very helpful in looking
at performance analysis for Tiger.
So those are the detailed
data mining operations.
There are more macro-level
operations that are also very useful.
Flattened Recursion:
So you've probably seen this if
you've ever looked at a piece of code.
You've seen a recursive call,
maybe in NSView or some
other—even your own code.
And really,
that's not the most informative way
to look at a piece of a function,
right?
But if you're looking at
this recursive function,
you'd actually like to see all those
recursive calls collapse into one,
and see all the time together,
and what all the recursive calls
actually do—collapse together.
So this Flattened Recursion checkbox
is in this Advanced Settings drawer
that we've been looking at.
And you check this checkbox,
and all the recursive calls anywhere in
the profile just get collapsed to one.
So we talked about
flattening a single library.
This flattened system libraries
will flatten all of the system
libraries that occur in the profile.
So this is just a really quick
way to hide all that interior code
that you don't really want to see.
Another very useful one is Exclude
Entries Without Source Info.
Usually when you're working on
an application in your system,
you've turned on debugging
information because you want to
see symbols in Shark and you want
to get all the source information.
Well, the good news is that that's
almost the only thing in the
system with that information in it.
So if you exclude everything
without that information,
you're going to only see your code.
It's going to perform that exclude
operation on any symbol that doesn't have
source information associated with it.
So this, again,
this will just focus in on what
you know on your source code.
I encourage you to play with
all these different operations.
You'll see very quickly what they
do and how they can help you.
Finally, Exclude Supervisor.
A lot of us aren't very familiar with
the kernel and what it's doing inside,
and how did I get these
red samples in my profile?
This is just a quick way to get
rid of those samples and keep
them from being a distraction
while you're looking at your code.
Okay, so those are the high-level
optimization tools that Shark provides.
Once you've kind of gotten
those out of the way,
you should be able to at least understand
your code at a level where you want
to optimize a specific function,
right?
So that's where Shark shines
for function-level optimization.
The most basic thing that Shark does for
you is it shows you your source code.
If you double-click on any symbol
in those profile views that we
talked about—heavier tree—it's
going to show the source code.
And what it's doing here,
it's coloring the source according
to how many samples landed
on a particular source line.
So the brighter the yellow,
the more samples landed there.
It's a really quick visual
way to see where you're
spending time in your source.
You also note that along
the—in the scroll bar,
the coloring in the background of
the scroll bar matches the coloring
in the background of the table.
So this is a very easy way to navigate,
you know,
quickly between hotspots in your code.
And finally, to make the profile and
optimization cycle complete,
there's an edit button.
And this is going to show your
source code inside of Xcode.
It's going to bring you back to Xcode.
So the typical optimization cycle, right?
You profile with Shark,
you go to the code browser,
you see a problem,
you click "Edit," go back to Xcode,
recompile, and so on.
So it's this iterative process
where you continually go back
and optimize it again and again
until you're happy with the code.
Another great thing that Shark will
do for you is it will provide
you with optimization tips.
So if you see one of these exclamation
points in the code browser,
in your code,
that means Shark has a tip for you.
So it has an idea about what might be
wrong or why you might be spending extra
time on that particular line of source.
And so if you click on
the exclamation point,
it will bring up this help balloon.
And finally, in Shark 4,
we've added this ability to look at
both source and assembly side by side,
right?
So now, rather than having to jump back
and forth or trying to figure out
what the compiler generated for
a particular line of source code,
when you navigate around
in the source viewer,
you'll see very quickly, OK,
the highlighted line, if you select here,
we have a line of source
selected on the left.
And there are maybe three or
four instructions there that
are selected on the right.
And those are the instructions
that go with that source line.
So this is a real quick way to see
what instructions were being generated.
Okay, well that's great,
but I don't know any PowerPC assembly.
Well, here you go, right?
There's this online help.
It will follow along as you
navigate through the assembly,
and it'll tell you in English, you know,
here's what this instruction does.
And, you know,
assembly language is just like
any other programming language.
It has these simple operations,
and you can read about it here
in this online help guide.
[Transcript missing]
That's time profiling.
Those are the tools that
we use with time profiling.
But you'll see that we also use
these same tools over and over,
but with more sophisticated
types of profiling,
which Shark also provides.
So in Shark 4, we added malloc tracing.
And what this is doing is every time an
allocation happens in a target program,
it's going to take a sample.
It's going to remember the call stack
and also how much memory was allocated.
So it's not shown here,
but you can look at this in
the profile view and say,
"Okay, this function over the sampling
runtime allocated this much memory."
And that's useful for tracking down,
you know, overall how much memory was
allocated in various functions.
But another interesting thing to
do is to use the chart view to see
patterns in the program behavior,
because this is not a
statistical profile.
This is an exact trace
of the malloc functions.
And most interesting program behavior
does some sort of allocation.
You can see patterns in your code,
in the execution of your code.
So here what we're looking at,
this is the dock as we mouse over and
it kind of magnifies different icons.
We're looking at three icons here, right?
And so you can see
this repeated behavior.
Now sometimes,
like in the case of the dock, well,
maybe we expect that.
We expect repetition.
But this can also be a good
clue when you're doing extra
operations that aren't necessary.
So malloc tracing is more
general than just looking at
where memory was allocated.
and a more general
form of malloc tracing,
is function tracing.
So rather than just tracing the
allocation functions in your code,
you can trace any functions in your code.
And again, this is an exact trace.
So there are some predefined
presets for file AO APIs,
typical network APIs, locking APIs.
But you can also add your own functions,
right?
So if you have a set of functions
that you want to watch in your
code and you want to measure exact
function count and the amount
of time that the function took,
this is a great way to do it.
You just attach to your
application and select the
functions that you want to watch.
And this is measuring each function
call's time very accurately
with the PowerPC decrementer,
but without having to write any
instrumentation code in your application.
And finally, event profiling.
For you long-time Shark users,
we've had this for a while,
but this is also a very good
way to correlate hardware
and operating system events,
so things like cache misses in
the hardware or virtual memory
faults in the operating system,
with your code.
Here, in this example,
we have L1 and L2 data cache misses
that we're event profiling along
with our normal time profile.
We see two columns have been added to
the profile for each of those counts,
L1 and L2 cache misses.
Also, in the chart view,
we can see there's a chart above,
so you can track the L2
cache miss over time.
How is that changing over
time in your application?
And there are literally
hundreds and hundreds of these
performance events available.
Finally in Shark 4, Java profiling.
Everything that you could do with
CFM and Mac OS X applications
is also available for Java now:
time and allocation tracing,
function tracing.
It's going to show if you
double-click on a Java function
and the source code is available,
it's going to show you the
Java source in a code browser.
So those are the built-in configurations
that we've been talking about.
You can create your own using
this configuration editor.
And one of the hard things that there
was in Shark 3 was finding where
performance counter events lived.
So which PMC,
which performance monitor counter,
does an event that counts
cache misses live on?
Well, you'd have to either go to the
processor user guide and look it up,
or you'd just kind of
blindly search around.
Well, now there's a text search
for the performance event.
So you can just type
in cache miss or cache,
and it'll come up with a list
of which PMCs have an event
with that substring in it.
Okay, in Shark 4,
we've also added network profiling.
This is using Rendezvous.
You can set up your
XServe in your closet,
or you have an HPC cluster,
and you want to monitor what's
going on in that machine that
doesn't have a monitor and a mouse
in front of it and a keyboard.
Well, this will let you monitor
one or more of those machines
that you've set that up on,
so you don't have to sit
in front of this machine.
You just go out—it works very similar
to Xcode's distributed builds.
You pick the target machines and hit
start and stop on your client machine.
And so, let's have a demo of that.
Can we switch to the demo machine,
please?
Great.
All right,
so over here I have a machine—this is
Sanjay's machine that's running some
code on it—but I'll launch Shark here,
right?
And I'll go to the
network profiling window,
and I'll say,
"Control network profiling of shared
computers." And there I can say,
"Oh, somebody has shared this WWDC6.
Okay, let's use that."
And it's running something over here.
Let's hit start.
So again, Shark is very simple.
Just hit the start button.
Stop.
And now we're processing
on the other machine here.
This is the profile
taken from this machine.
We can see, "Oh, that's Celestia.
I wonder what that is."
Maybe Sanjay can tell us.
Sanjay Patel, can we have you come
up here and explain it?
So, for those of you here on Monday,
you probably saw our Celestia demo.
We'd like to show you a few more
details about how we optimize that code.
So, if we go back to slides
for just a second.
Okay, so Celestia is this open source
program we found on the web,
and it's really cool.
It's a 3D space simulation of all
the large bodies in the universe.
For more information,
you can check them out on this web link.
They actually use real data
from Pasadena down at JPL to
calculate where the planets and
the stars are—how they're orbiting.
So let's go back to the demo machine.
And so this is Celestia's main window.
You can see it's hovering
around the earth right now.
And we wanted to find out how
this thing performs on Mac OS X.
So the first thing you have to do
if you're going to try to optimize
performance is put down a good metric.
In our case, that would be how long
it takes using a timer,
as you can see in the corner,
to run our script.
And so right now,
we're running and timing,
so we can bring up Shark.
And you can see, as Nathan said,
Shark is pretty simple.
There's a start button
in the middle here.
We can choose our configuration,
but by default, most of us are going
to use a time profile.
Let's just hit the start button.
So right now we're actually
taking a thousand samples per
second of whatever's running on
the system beyond just Celestia.
If you hit stop,
Shark is now processing
the samples it took.
And it's going to show us by
default what we call the heavy view.
So this is a list in order of
importance of the functions that
actually ran on this system.
Now at the bottom here you can
see Celestia's taking up less
than half of the processor cycles.
And if you pop that open you notice
the first thing is the Mach kernel.
So new for Shark 4,
we actually filter out the idle thread,
so you won't pop there by default.
Thanks for old Shark fans.
And you might wonder why is
Celestia getting less than half
the CPU cycles on this system?
If you pop open the thread pop up,
you'll see that it's
a single threaded app.
So we're running on a dual G5.
It can't possibly take all of
the CPU cycles on the machine.
Now another way to look at this code is,
as Nathan mentioned, we have a tree view.
So this is the traditional
top-down view of code.
So you start at start or main,
and you work your way down to
the leaves of the function.
This is great for understanding
the structure of your code:
How did you get there?
And new for Shark 4, we can view both:
heavy and tree simultaneously,
so you can get a really good feel
for the behavior of your program.
And of course, as Nathan mentioned,
we have the new chart view.
So this is interesting.
We have a dual processor system,
so we get two charts.
And on the x-axis,
we have time for each CPU.
Now, we know that Celestia's a
single-threaded program,
so let's just look at its
one thread in one chart.
And new for Shark 4,
we have this zoom slider.
This was a big upgrade
compared to previous zooming.
And you can go back and forth.
The nice part is if you click
on one of these call stacks,
you'll get the backtrace
for that point in time.
So you can see chronologically how
your program behaved over time.
And you'll notice that there are
some of these maroon or red samples.
Those are calls into supervisor space.
And one thing I noticed was,
for the Celestia profile,
we had a lot of these calls
into the supervisor space.
It turns out we're trying to draw
about a thousand times per second.
And for those of us who are
familiar with graphics applications,
you don't really need to try to
draw that often because you can't.
So we limited it to 30 frames per second.
And that's what I call Warp 2.
We can go to that.
So you can see things have sped
up immensely by not doing all that
work of trying to draw too often.
We can also go to the threading model,
which would be Warp 3.
So it turns out you can do
drawing in parallel with some
of the computations for orbits.
And we can take another sample here.
So, I'll put on my hardware hat for a
second and say that threading is
probably the most important thing you
guys can do if you have any serious
computation going on in your programs,
because no matter what
architecture we're talking about,
we're going to end up being multi-core,
multi-processor, multi-threaded,
multi-something.
So, if you're not taking advantage
of that parallelism in hardware,
you're going to lose out.
But now we can see,
if we compare the first
session to our second session,
You'll notice that it's very different.
On the first session,
we had this called a log at the top,
but now that we've limited
drawing and done threading,
we have a totally different profile.
So this brings up an important point:
You shouldn't try to
micro-optimize right off the bat.
You should look for some high-level
problems to figure out what your code
is actually doing before you start
diving into function-level tuning.
But now we have a new profile,
and you'll see that Cosine from LibSystem
is actually at the top of the chart.
And there's not much
we can do about Cosine,
but we should figure out
who's calling Cosine.
So if you open up a disclosure triangle,
you can see our main caller
is this orbit function.
Now, new in Shark 4, we have what we call
data mining operations,
and as Nathan mentioned,
if we want to hide, say, a whole library,
for example, lib system,
we can just exclude it,
and now all of the samples
that used to be in cosine are
attributed to its callers.
So you see our orbit function
is now at the top of the chart.
And of course, if you double-click,
You get your source code,
and it's highlighted
according to Hotspot.
You can see in this function,
almost all of the time
it's going into one line,
calling cosine.
And of course, it's a for loop.
What we should do is open up Xcode
and see what we can do about that.
So you just hit the edit button.
And you can see we're
calling cosine in a loop,
and we're actually just iterating
over a whole array of data and
getting the cosine of each value.
Now,
new in Tiger in the Accelerate framework,
there just happens to be a
cosine function that does that.
It just iterates over an entire array.
And if we jump over to that line,
You can see I just made a call here.
It's called vvcosinf.
It's available on Tiger.
And what it does is it
just takes an entire array,
operates cosine across the whole path,
and gives you a return array.
So we made that optimization.
We call that Warp 4.
You'll see we took about 20 seconds to
run through the demo before while we
were threading and limiting drawing.
Using the Accelerate framework,
we doubled the performance.
But there is a downside:
I kind of cheated.
That cosine function is single precision,
and the inputs and outputs in
Celestia were double precision.
So I didn't want to cause any
kind of astronomical catastrophe
or global warming or anything.
So we decided we'll do our
own cosine approximation
function in double precision.
And I called that Warp 5,
and it ended up being a little slower
than just calling it a V-force.
So, we decided we'll do our
own cosine approximation
function in double precision.
And I called that Warp 5,
and it ended up being a little slower
than just calling it a V-force.
So, we decided we'll do our
own cosine approximation
function in double precision.
And I called that Warp 5,
and it ended up being a little slower
than just calling it a V-force.
and figure out what our code is doing
after we've made these optimizations.
So this is performance tuning, of course.
It's an iterative process.
So again,
you can see the profile has changed.
Cosine's no longer there.
We have our approximation
function on top.
And what I want to do is take a
look at this function called BigFix.
It's a C++ constructor.
And you look here and you say, "Whoa,
Shark is angry about something."
It's got a lot of what we
call the callouts there,
and if you click on one of those,
you get some friendly advice—or
not-so-friendly advice,
depending on how bad your code was.
In this case,
we're doing type conversions
from floating point to int,
so this is one of the big bottlenecks
for a G5 or even a G4 processor.
And what we want to do
is try to optimize that.
But let's take a look at what
the compiler generates underneath
this So we can now look at
source and assembly side by side.
Of course,
we're trying to sell those big monitors.
This looks really great on 30-inch.
Now the really nice part here is
you can see Nathan scrolling around,
and for each line of source,
we're actually in sync
with the ASIM view.
So that's going to pop as you
scroll around in the source.
So you can see exactly which lines of
ASIM correspond to which lines of source.
Now if we just want to look at
ASIM and don't really understand ASIM,
then we have this new
handy PPC help button.
As Nathan showed.
And the cool part here is,
as you click on your ASIM,
the right page of the
manual pops open with you.
So, lots of information
right at your fingertips.
You don't have to go
fumbling around for manuals.
That's a pretty big improvement
for someone like me.
And of course, if you're really tuning
for G5 or PowerPC 970,
we have this extra help here.
If we click this "Show Dispatch Groups,"
your source will now be highlighted
according to dispatch groups for the G5.
So for those of you familiar
with the G5 architecture,
you can actually tune
down to the hardware.
The other nice feature is
this 970 details drawer.
And if you highlight code,
you can see dynamically we're
updating the charts at the bottom,
so you can see where every
ASIM instruction is going.
So on the left we have
the functional units,
and on the right we
have the dispatch slots.
So for those of you who
really want to tune,
this is great stuff.
Okay, so let's go back to Celestia.
So over a period of
about two weeks or so,
with a lot of interruptions
doing real work,
I spent—I used Shark to
try to optimize this code,
so I ended up writing some AlteVec code,
I did some scheduling for the G5,
I did some G5-specific optimizations,
and the sum result of that
is what I call Warp 9.
And if we run through that,
Okay, so let's go back to Celestia.
So over a period of
about two weeks or so,
with a lot of interruptions
doing real work,
I spent—I used Shark to
try to optimize this code,
so I ended up writing some AlteVec code,
I did some scheduling for the G5,
I did some G5-specific optimizations,
and the sum result of that
is what I call Warp 9.
And if we run through that,
Here's the result of a couple
of weeks of tuning effort.
We started out—if you
run this demo as is,
it'll take over 20, 25 minutes on a G5.
And when we were done, of course,
we got to five seconds,
so around 300 times the performance.
So that was pretty nice.
So let's just summarize what
we've talked about today.
Things we really want to say are,
as you can see, hopefully,
that it's a really quick
process to start using Shark.
You don't have to do any
kind of hardcore profiling.
You can take your optimized
binary and simply profile that.
In order to see your source,
all you have to do is add the
-g flag so you don't strip
out your debugging symbols.
And of course we provide
a lot of high-level views,
so if you're used to trees,
you can see it in tree view,
you can use the heavy view,
you can look at your code
over time as a chart.
And of course, once you've identified
functions that are hotspots,
you want to tune the source
code or tune the assembly,
and Shark gives you optimization tips.
And of course, once you've identified
functions that are hotspots,
you want to tune the source
code or tune the assembly,
and Shark gives you optimization tips.
And of course, hopefully you can tell,
Shark we've tried really
hard to make easy.
There's no magic here.
You just push the start button
and that should get you going.
But there is a lot of machinery
underneath here that makes it
powerful enough for even the most
expert users who want to tune
all the way down to the metal.
And of course, hopefully you can tell,
Shark we've tried really
hard to make easy.
There's no magic here.
You just push the start button
and that should get you going.
But there is a lot of machinery
underneath here that makes it
powerful enough for even the most
expert users who want to tune
all the way down to the metal.
And of course, hopefully you can tell,
Shark we've tried really
hard to make easy.
There's no magic here.
You just push the start button
and that should get you going.
But there is a lot of machinery
underneath here that makes it
powerful enough for even the most
expert users who want to tune
all the way down to the metal.